docs: Update "Basics" section (#7416)
cosmos/cosmos-sdk: docs/basics/app-anatomy.md

- **A list of module's `keeper`s.** Each module defines an abstraction called [`keeper`](../building-modules/keeper.md), which handles reads and writes for this module's store(s). The `keeper`'s methods of one module can be called from other modules (if authorized), which is why they are declared in the application's type and exported as interfaces to other modules so that the latter can only access the authorized functions.
- **A reference to a [`codec`](../core/encoding.md).** The application's `codec` is used to serialize and deserialize data structures in order to store them, as stores can only persist `[]bytes`. The `codec` must be deterministic. The default codec is [Protocol Buffers](../core/encoding.md).

> - **A reference to a [module manager](../building-modules/module-manager.md#manager)** and a [basic module manager](../building-modules/module-manager.md#basicmanager). The module manager is an object that contains a list of the application's module. It facilitates operations related to these modules, like registering [`routes`](../core/baseapp.md#routing), [gRPC query routes](../core/baseapp.md#query-routing) or setting the order of execution between modules for various functions like [`InitChainer`](#initchainer), [`BeginBlocker` and `EndBlocker`](#beginblocker-and-endblocker).

Author: Do we still want to mention the query routes? I would mark them as legacy too, and only mention gRPC on this page

Author: Mentioned both.

To register the application's modules, the `MakeCodecs` creates a codec which will be passed as argument into the `RegisterInterfaces` method on `ModuleBasics`. `ModuleBasics` is a [basic manager](../building-modules/module-manager.md#basicmanager) which lists all of the application's modules. It is instanciated in the `init()` function, and only serves to easily register non-dependant elements of application's modules (such as codec). To learn more about the basic module manager, click [here](../building-modules/module-manager.md#basicmanager).

Please note that in this version of the SDK, the `MakeCodecs` function actually creates two codecs:

- an `appCodec`, which will be used by default across the SDK, defaults to Protocol Buffers,
- a `legacyAmino` codec, as some legacy parts of the SDK still uses Amino for backwards-compatibility. This `legacyAmino` codec should not be used by app developers, and will be removed in the next release.

See an example of a `MakeCodecs` from [`gaia`](https://github.com/cosmos/gaia):

> +++ https://github.com/cosmos/gaia/blob/d00db033d861c4f59e07038e61bcaf39274ff6da/app/app.go#L71-L81

Author: gaia still hasn't been updated to use proto, this snippet is still Amino unfortunately.

Author: Referencing simapp code now.

+++ https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/d9175200920e96bfa4182b5c8bc46d91b17a28a1/server/types/app.go#L42-L44

Here are the main actions performed by this function:

- Instantiate a new [`codec`](../core/encoding.md) and initialize the `codec` of each of the application's module using the [basic manager](../building-modules/module-manager.md#basicmanager)
- Instantiate a new application with a reference to a `baseapp` instance, a codec and all the appropriate store keys.
- Instantiate all the [`keeper`s](#keeper) defined in the application's `type` using the `NewKeeper` function of each of the application's modules. Note that `keepers` must be instantiated in the correct order, as the `NewKeeper` of one module might require a reference to another module's `keeper`.
- Instantiate the application's [module manager](../building-modules/module-manager.md#manager) with the [`AppModule`](#application-module-interface) object of each of the application's modules.

> - With the module manager, initialize the application's [`routes`](../core/baseapp.md#routing) and [query routes](../core/baseapp.md#query-routing). When a transaction is relayed to the application by Tendermint via the ABCI, it is routed to the appropriate module's [`handler`](#handler) using the routes defined here. Likewise, when a query is received by the application, it is routed to the appropriate module's [`querier`](#querier) using the query routes defined here.

Reviewer: The querier is not the default anymore. A note about gRPC would be helpful

Author: Agreed. The wording i'm using consistently is:
- `routes` for Msg handlers
- `grpc query service` for gRPC routes
- `legacy querier` for legacy queries

As a sidenote, it is important to remember that application-specific blockchains are deterministic. Developers must be careful not to introduce non-determinism in `BeginBlocker` or `EndBlocker`, and must also be careful not to make them too computationally expensive, as [gas](./gas-fees.md) does not constrain the cost of `BeginBlocker` and `EndBlocker` execution.

See an example of `BeginBlocker` and `EndBlocker` functions from `simapp`

+++ https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/d9175200920e96bfa4182b5c8bc46d91b17a28a1/simapp/app.go#L440-L448

> ### Register Codec

Reviewer: I think it's important to mention and describe what the new encoding config is and what is it for

Author: I completely rewrote this paragraph, lmk if it's clearer.

The `MakeCodecs` function is the last important function of the `app.go` file. The goal of this function is to instantiate a [codec `appCodec`](../core/encoding.md) (defaults to Protobuf), and initialize the codec of the SDK and each of the application's modules using the `RegisterInterfaces` function.

> To register the application's modules, the `MakeCodecs` creates a codec which will be passed as argument into the `RegisterInterfaces` method on `ModuleBasics`. `ModuleBasics` is a [basic manager](../building-modules/module-manager.md#basicmanager) which lists all of the application's modules. It is instanciated in the `init()` function, and only serves to easily register non-dependant elements of application's modules (such as codec). To learn more about the basic module manager, click [here](../building-modules/module-manager.md#basicmanager).

Reviewer: I feel that the interface registry is missing here

Author: I completely rewrote this paragraph, lmk if it's clearer.

- **One handler function for each message type defined by the module**. Developers write the message processing logic in these functions. This generally involves doing stateful checks to ensure the message is valid and calling [`keeper`](#keeper)'s methods to update the state.

Handler functions return a result of type `sdk.Result`, which informs the application on whether the message was successfully processed:

+++ https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/d9175200920e96bfa4182b5c8bc46d91b17a28a1/types/result.go#L15-L40

### Querier

[`Queriers`](../building-modules/querier.md) are very similar to `handlers`, except they serve user queries to the state as opposed to processing transactions. A [query](../building-modules/messages-and-queries.md#queries) is initiated from an [interface](#interfaces) by an end-user who provides a `queryRoute` and some `data`. The query is then routed to the correct application's `querier` by `baseapp`'s `handleQueryCustom` method using `queryRoute`:

+++ https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/d9175200920e96bfa4182b5c8bc46d91b17a28a1/baseapp/abci.go#L395-L453

The `Querier` of a module is defined in a file called `querier.go`, and consists of:

> - A **switch function** `NewQuerier` to route the query to the appropriate `querier` function. This function returns a `querier` function, and is is registered in the [`AppModule`](#application-module-interface) to be used in the application's module manager to initialize the [application's query router](../core/baseapp.md#query-routing). See an example of such a switch from the [nameservice tutorial](https://github.com/cosmos/sdk-tutorials/tree/master/nameservice):

Reviewer 2: Should we add something in this section regarding the fact that this type of `querier` implementation is only used if we wanna support `LegacyQuerierHandler`?

Author: Makes sense, I also added a paragraph about gRPC query services.

The `handler` of a module is generally defined in a file called `handler.go` and consists of:

- A **switch function** `NewHandler` to route the message to the appropriate `handler` function. This function returns a `handler` function, and is registered in the [`AppModule`](#application-module-interface) to be used in the application's module manager to initialize the [application's router](../core/baseapp.md#routing). Next is an example of such a switch from the [nameservice tutorial](https://github.com/cosmos/sdk-tutorials/tree/master/nameservice)
  +++ https://github.com/cosmos/sdk-tutorials/blob/master/nameservice/x/nameservice/handler.go#L12-L26
- **One handler function for each message type defined by the module**. Developers write the message processing logic in these functions. This generally involves doing stateful checks to ensure the message is valid and calling [`keeper`](#keeper)'s methods to update the state.

Handler functions return a result of type `sdk.Result`, which informs the application on whether the message was successfully processed:

+++ https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/d9175200920e96bfa4182b5c8bc46d91b17a28a1/types/result.go#L15-L40

> ### gRPC Query Services

Reviewer: pending how to enable gRPC on the app.toml

Protobuf generates a `QueryServer` interface for each module, containing all the service methods. A module's [`keeper`](#keeper) then needs to implement this `QueryServer` interface, by providing the concrete implementation of each service method. This concrete implementation is the handler of the corresponding gRPC query endpoint.

Finally, each module should also implement the `RegisterQueryService` method as part of the [`AppModule` interface](#application-module-interface). This method should call the `RegisterQueryServer` function provided by the generated Protobuf code.

### Legacy Querier

Legacy queriers were queriers used before the introduction of Protobuf and gRPC in the SDK. They are present for existing modules, but will be deprecated in a future release of the SDK. If you are developing new modules, gRPC query services should be preferred, and you only need to implement the `LegacyQuerierHandler` interface if you wish to use legacy queriers.

> [`Queriers`](../building-modules/querier.md) are very similar to `handlers`, except they serve user queries to the state as opposed to processing transactions. A [query](../building-modules/messages-and-queries.md#queries) is initiated from an [interface](#interfaces) by an end-user who provides a `queryRoute` and some `data`. The query is then routed to the correct application's `querier` by `baseapp`'s `handleQueryCustom` method using `queryRoute`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[`Queriers`](../building-modules/querier.md) are very similar to `handlers`, except they serve user queries to the state as opposed to processing transactions. A [query](../building-modules/messages-and-queries.md#queries) is initiated from an [interface](#application-interface) by an end-user who provides a `queryRoute` and some `data`. The query is then routed to the correct application's `querier` by `baseapp`'s `handleQueryCustom` method using `queryRoute`:
```

Generally, the [commands related to a module](../building-modules/module-interfaces.md#cli) are defined in a folder called `client/cli` in the module's folder. The CLI divides commands in two category, transactions and queries, defined in `client/cli/tx.go` and `client/cli/query.go` respectively. Both commands are built on top of the [Cobra Library](https://github.com/spf13/cobra):

- Transactions commands let users generate new transactions so that they can be included in a block and eventually update the state. One command should be created for each [message type](#message-types) defined in the module. The command calls the constructor of the message with the parameters provided by the end-user, and wraps it into a transaction. The SDK handles signing and the addition of other transaction metadata.
- Queries let users query the subset of the state defined by the module. Query commands forward queries to the [application's query router](../core/baseapp.md#query-routing), which routes them to the appropriate [querier](#querier) the `queryRoute` parameter supplied.

#### REST

> The [module's REST interface](../building-modules/module-interfaces.md#rest) lets users generate transactions and query the state through REST calls to the application's [light client daemon](../core/node.md#lcd) (LCD). REST routes are defined in a file `client/rest/rest.go`, which is composed of:

Author: This LCD is deprecated, right? I can't find any mention of it.

Reviewer 3: Yes, LCD should have never been used to begin with. It can be replaced with `API service`.

- define a `RegisterGRPCRoutes` method on `AppModuleBasic` to wire the client gRPC requests to the correct handler inside the module.
- for each service method, define a corresponding handler. The handler implements the core logic necessary to serve the gRPC request, and is located in the `keeper/grpc_query.go` file.

#### gRPC-gateway REST Endpoints

Some external clients may not wish to use gRPC. The SDK provides in this case a gRPC gateway service, which exposes each gRPC service as a correspoding REST endpoint. Please refer to the [grpc-gateway](https://grpc-ecosystem.github.io/grpc-gateway/) documentation to learn more.

The REST endpoints are defined in the Protobuf files, along with the gRPC services, using Protobuf annotations. Modules that want to expose REST queries should add `google.api.http` annotations to their `rpc` methods. By default, all REST endpoints defined in the SDK have an URL starting with the `/cosmos/` prefix.

> The SDK also provides development tools to generate [Swagger](https://swagger.io/) definition files for these REST endpoints.

Reviewer: pending how to enable swagger on app.toml

#### Legacy API REST Endpoints

The [module's Legacy REST interface](../building-modules/module-interfaces.md#rest) lets users generate transactions and query the state through REST calls to the application's Legacy API Service. REST routes are defined in a file `client/rest/rest.go`, which is composed of:

- A `RegisterRoutes` function, which registers each route defined in the file. This function is called from the [main application's interface](#application-interfaces) for each module used within the application. The router used in the SDK is [Gorilla's mux](https://github.com/gorilla/mux).
- Custom request type definitions for each query or transaction creation function that needs to be exposed. These custom request types build on the base `request` type of the Cosmos SDK:
  +++ https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/d9175200920e96bfa4182b5c8bc46d91b17a28a1/types/rest/rest.go#L62-L76
- One handler function for each request that can be routed to the given module. These functions implement the core logic necessary to serve the request.

> These Legacy API endpoints are present in the SDK for backwards compatbility purposes, and will be removed in the next release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These Legacy API endpoints are present in the SDK for backward compatibility purposes and will be removed in the next release.
```
